## Beginning

The diagram(table /chart /graph) shows(depicts /represents /provides /describes /illustrates) the information on/the proportion of...

例句：The table illustrates the information of the health expenditure in five countries.


## Depict

The table data clearly shows that...

As it is presented in the table/diagram/chart...

It is explicitly observed that...

It can be clearly observed that...

It could be noticed that...

As (it is) shown in the illustration...

As the diagram suggests...

例句：As shown in the illustration, there was a significant decline in the quantity prior to it plugging to just under 1000 million in December.


## Trend

在描述上升或者下降的趋势变化时，既可以用“动词+副词”的形式，又可以用“形容词+名词”的形式

### 描述上升趋势

1. 动词形式：increase /rise /soar /rocket /climb /go up /jump /leap + sharply /rapidly

例句：The number of people watching TV and movies increased from 1980 to 2020.
The petrol price(汽油价格) rocketed to a record high.
The rate of heart disease soared to 79 per 1, 000 people.

2. 名词形式：an increase /a rise /an upward trend /a growth /a jump /an improvement /a climb /a leap

例句：From 1980 to 2020, there was an increase in the number of people watching TV and movies.
The housing market saw an upward trend in 2003.

3. peak at... 在某位置到达最高点

The figures show that the unemployment rate peaked at 9.8% in October.

4. reach the highest point

The crime rate rose throughout(在整个...) the 1990s and reached the highest point in 2001.

5. increase to 增长到...

例句：Starting with the production of and demand for steel, 4000 million tonnes were produced in January and then the amount increased to 5000 million before dropping back to the January figure in March.

6. increase by 增长了...

例句：The per unit area yield of ginned cotton has increased by 10% over last year.


### 描述下降趋势

1. 动词形式：decrease /fall /decline /drop /plummet /slide /go down /dip

例句：The number of people playing video games declined from 1980 to 2020.

2. 名词形式：a fall /a decrease /a decline /a downward trend /a drop /a slide /a slump /a downward tendency

例句：From 1980 to 2020, there was a decline in the number of people playing video games.
The prices of consumer goods witnessed a downward trend.
In contrast, the cost of furniture and equipment saw an opposite trend.
There was a slump in the demand for new cars in 2007.
There was a substantial/considerable decline inthe unemployment rate.

3. fall consistently from... to... 从..持续下降到

After 2007, housing prices in the UK fell consistently through 2009.

4. plummet to... 骤降至

That number rose to 3,900 by 2004 and then plummeted to 760 by 2008.
这个数字在2004年达到了3900,然后到了2008年却陡然骤降到760。

5. drop swiftly to..快速下降至…

The number of full-time jobs generated by the retail industry dropped swiftly to 14,000.


### 描述平稳趋势

1. remain + unchanged /steady /stable /static /the same

例句：The number of people playing music remained unchanged from 1980 to 2020.

2. reach a plateau 进入平稳状态

By 2002, this improvement had reached a plateau.


## Variation

在描述变化的幅度时，依然是可以用“动词+副词形式”的表达，也可以用“形容词形式+名词”的表达

### 描述轻微变化

1. 副词形式：slightly /slowly /mildly /marginally

例句：From 1980 to 2020, the number of people playing video games decreased slightly.

2. 形容词形式：slight /slow /mild /marginal

例句：From 1980 to 2020, there was a slight decrease in the number of people playing video games.

### 描述大幅度变化

1. 副词形式：significantly /dramatically /steeply /substantially /considerably /rapidly /sharply

例句：The figure in August increased dramatically, at approximately 5000.

2. 形容词形式：significant /dramatical /steep /substantial /considerable /rapid /sharp

例句：There was a dramatical increase in August, at approximately 5000.

### 描述稳定变化

1. 副词形式：stably /steadily

例句：Overall, the total population of this place increased stably.

2. 形容词形式：stable /steady

例句：Overall, there was a stable increase in the total population of this place.

3. fluctuate around.../ fluctuate between...and...

Their total leisure time per week fluctuated between 22 hours and 35 hours.


## Figure

25%可以写成：exactly a quarter

26%可以写成：roughly one quarter /slightly more than a quarter

32%可以写成：nearly one-third, nearly a third

49%可以写成：around a half /just under a half

50%可以写成：exactly a half

51%可以写成：just over a half

73%可以写成：nearly three quarters /slightly below three quarters

75%可以写成：exactly three quarters

79%可以写成：well over three quarters


## Prediction

is expected to

is forecasted to

is predicted to

is projected(预期的) to

is shown to

例句：The number of people doing woodwork increased by about 10 from 1980 to 1990 and suddenly increased to 200 people in 2000. After that, it has steadily decreased, and this trend is predicted to continue until 2040.