## Introduction and Course Overview

Finance = Money + Mathematics

Investment decision involves:
1. What investments should make
2. How should it pay for those investments

* The secret of success in financial management is to increase value.

### A Flow Model of the Economy
Households, 
Financial Intermediaries, 
Non-financial Corporations, 
Capital Markets, 
Product Markets,
Labor Markets

### All Business Activities Reduced To 2 Functions:

1. Valuation of assets (real/financial, tangible/intangible)
2. Management of assets (acquiring/selling)

### Accounting
The language of finance

Balance sheet: measure the stock(存量) of wealth of a company. (stock)
Income statement: how much the company is making per unit time versus its losses. (flow)

### The Framework of Financial Analysis

**Corporate Financial Decisions**
1. Cash raised from investors
2. Cash invested in real assets
3. Cash generated by operations
4. Cash reinvested
5. Cash returned to investors (debt payments, dividends, etc.)

**Management**
- Real Investment: 2,3
- Financing: 1,4
- Payout: 5
- Risk management: 1,5
- Objective: create and maximize shareholder value
 
### 6 Fundamental Principles of Finance

1. There is no such thing as a Free Lunch.

2. Other things equal, individuals:
  - Prefer more money to less
  - Prefer money now to later
  - Prefer to avoid risk

3. All agents act to further their own self-interest

4. Financial markets prices shift to equalize supply and demand

5. Financial markets are highly adaptive and competitive

6. Risk-sharing and frictions are central to financial innovation


## How to Calculate Present Values

### Cashflows and Assets

#### An asset is a sequence of cashflows 

Asset<sub>t</sub> = {CF<sub>t</sub>,CF<sub>t+1</sub>,CF<sub>t+2</sub>,...}

> Asset involve present and future cashflows, not including the past cashflows.

#### Valuing An Asset Requires Valuing A Sequence of Cashflows
* Sequences of cashflows are the basic building blocks of finance

Value of Asset<sub>t</sub> = V<sub>t</sub>(CF<sub>t</sub>,CF<sub>t+1</sub>,CF<sub>t+2</sub>,...)

Cash flows at different points sometimes are like different currencies. In order to add them together, you've got to use the appropricate exchange rates.

### Net Present Value

NPV = C<sub>0</sub> + C<sub>1</sub>/(1 + r)

> r is the opportunity cost of capital

### Special Cashflows: The Perpetuity

1. Perpetuity pays constant cashflow C forever

PV = C/(1+r) + C/(1+r)<sup>2</sup> + C/(1+r)<sup>3</sup> + ...   (1)

(1+r) * PV = C + C/(1+r) + C/(1+r)<sup>2</sup> +  ...            (2)

Through equation (2)-(1), we can get:
r * PV = C

Therefore,
PV = C/r


2. Growing perpetuity pays growing cashflow C(1+g)<sup>t</sup> forever

PV = C/(1+r) + C(1+g)/(1+r)<sup>2</sup> + C*(1+g)<sup>2</sup>/(1+r)<sup>3</sup> + ...   (1)

(1+r)/(1+g) * PV = C/(1+g) + C/(1+r) + C(1+g)/(1+r)<sup>2</sup> +  ...            (2)

Through equation (2)-(1), we can get:
[(1+r)/(1+g)-1] * PV = C/(1+g)

Therefore,
PV = C/(r-g),  r > g

### Special Cashflows: The Annuity

PV = C/(1+r) + C/(1+r)<sup>2</sup> + ... + C/(1+r)<sup>T</sup>  (1)
(1+r) * PV = C + C/(1+r) + ... + C/(1+r)<sup>T-1</sup>          (2)

r * PV = C - C/(1+r)<sup>T</sup> 

PV = C/r - C/r/(1+r)<sup>T</sup> 

> 上式PV表示0时付出成本C/r减去T+1时卖出获得C/r在0时的现值，即年金的现值


## Valuing Bonds

### Using the Present Value Formula to Value Bonds

If we call the ith cash payment C<sub>i</sub>, the annual yield to maturity y, and the number of interest payments each year n, then the general formula for a bond’s present value is:

PV = ∑C<sub>i</sub>/(1 + y/n)<sup>i</sup>

###  How Bond Prices Vary with Yields

The higher yield results in a lower bond price. Bond prices and yields must move in opposite directions.

When bond prices fall, interest rates (i.e., yields to maturity) must rise. When interest rates rise, bond prices must fall. 

### The Term Structure of Interest Rates

The relationship between short- and long-term interest rates is called the term structure of interest rates.

Prices of long-term bonds are more affected by changes in interest rates than prices of short- term bonds.

### Real and Nominal Interest Rates

Bonds promise fixed nominal cash payments, but the real interest rate that they provide depends on the inflation rate, i:
1 + r<sub>real</sub> = (1 + r<sub>nominal</sub>)/(1 + i)

### The Risk of Default

When you buy a U.S. Treasury bond, you can be fairly confident that you will get your money back. This is not true for some countries and the interest rate they have to pay is higher as a result. When you lend to a company, you also face the risk that it will default on its bonds. Defaults are rare for companies with investment-grade bond ratings, but companies need to compensate investors for default risk by promising to pay higher rates of interest.


## Fixed Income Securities

### Expected yield on a corporate bond

Corporations have limited liability. Therefore, if companies are unable to pay their debts, they can file for bankruptcy. As a result lenders may receive less than they are owed and the expected yield on a corporate bond is less than the promised yield.

### The yield spread on a corporate bond

Because of the possibility of default, the promised yield on a corporate bond is higher than on a government bond. You can think of this yield spread as the amount that you would need to pay to insure the bond against default. There is a market for insurance policies that protect the debtholder against default. These policies are called credit default swaps. There are few free lunches in financial markets. So the extra yield you get for buying a corporate bond is likely to be eaten up by the cost of insuring against default.

### The default put 

The company’s option to default is equivalent to a put option. If the value of the firm’s assets is less than the amount of the debt, it will pay the company to default and to allow the lenders to take over the assets in settlement of the debt. Thus

> Bond value = value of risk-free bond − value of put option on issuer’s assets

This insight tells us what we need to think about when valuing corporate debt—the current value of the firm relative to the point at which it would default, the volatility of the assets, the maturity of the debt payments, and the risk-free interest rate. Unfortunately, most companies have several loans outstanding with payments due at different times. This considerably complicates the task of valuing the put option.

### Bond ratings

When investors want a measure of the risk of a company’s bonds, they usually look first at the rating that has been assigned by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, or Fitch. They know that bonds with investment-grade ratings (at least Baa or BBB) are much less likely to default than bonds with a junk rating.

### Statistical models of default

Banks, rating services, and consulting firms have also devel- oped models for estimating the likelihood of default. Statistical models take accounting ratios or other indicators of corporate health, and weight them to produce a single measure of default probability.

### Structural default models

Structural models, such as the Merton model, take a different tack and seek to measure the probability that the market value of the firm’s assets will fall to the point at which the firm will choose to exercise its option to default rather than keep up with its debt payments.










### Reference

https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/15-401-finance-theory-i-fall-2008/
[Principles of Corporate Finance](https://book.douban.com/subject/11652958/)
