First of all, as a commodity, housing also obeys the law of market economy. If the supply is less than the demand, the price will rise. Urbanization construction makes the population move from rural areas to small cities to large cities. As the population pours into cities, many people buy houses and settle in cities, forming huge demand and rising housing prices.

Real estate is the most expensive commodity that people are willing to buy. Liberalizing commodity housing transactions can quickly absorb a large amount of funds from the private sector into local finances. This part of the funds can be used for urban construction, thereby attracting more people to move in; investing in high-profit projects to obtain rich returns; providing preferential policies for private and foreign-funded enterprises to attract more enterprises to settle in and provide a large number of jobs; providing loans to those with lower housing purchase ability through banks to stimulate housing demand.

The entire development process can be summarized as: liberalizing commodity housing transactions -> absorbing funds -> urban construction -> enterprise settlement -> employment -> population migration -> housing demand -> developers building houses -> government land transfer -> government absorbing funds
The entire process forms a mutually reinforcing cycle, which increases urban enterprises, people, housing demand, demand is greater than supply, and housing prices rise. Among them, the significance of mortgage loans is not only to make banks earn interest, but more importantly, to bind homebuyers to this city. According to the contract, homebuyers must create enough value every month, which is an important measure to promote economic development.

The static mode of government finance relying on real estate will definitely reach a bottleneck. It seems that the economic cycle can be maintained by the continuous expansion of the city scale, but the population moving into the city during the urbanization process is limited after all. People who move into the city need to make money to eat, and not everyone can work in the city to sustain their lives. Moreover, the size of the city is also limited. On the other hand, the funds in the hands of ordinary people are also limited. The main group of homebuyers is still ordinary people. The rich may participate in the sale and purchase of commercial housing to earn the difference, but if it is not a real need for life, they will not hold real estate for a long time and pledge a large amount of funds. In the end, they will always find real demand users. If there is no real need for homebuyers, the game of real estate speculation will stop sooner or later no matter how lively it is.
Since the economic cycle cannot be maintained by expanding the scale of the city and the stock of funds in the hands of ordinary people, the only way is to create increments.
1. Through preferential policies, such as talent introduction subsidies, attract high-end talents from other cities to create high profits.
2. Lower mortgage interest rates, so that people who have the need to buy a house but do not have enough ability to buy a house can buy a house, and force buyers to create stable value in the form of contracts.
3. Real estate is tied to education, and the quality of children's education depends on the school district of the purchased property.
4. Points, talent introduction and settlement, children can take the local college entrance examination.

Urban development has entered a bottleneck, and the high point of commercial housing prices that has been rising in the early development has discouraged ordinary home buyers. The demand for housing has shrunk on a large scale, and the demand is less than the supply. In the short term, there is a situation where there is a price but no market, and the housing price will fall in the long term. In order to maintain the stable development of the economic cycle, the government needs to stabilize housing prices and use the above policies to stimulate housing demand. Therefore, cities (Beijing, Shanghai) and regions that can provide more preferential policies, lower loan interest rates, high education quality, and preferential policies for children's college entrance examinations have stronger talent competitiveness and more stable housing prices. Otherwise, a fall in housing prices is inevitable, and the granularity of housing price changes will be finer. For example, in the same city, housing prices in urban areas with high-quality educational resources may still rise, while housing prices in urban areas with general educational resources remain flat, and housing prices in other urban areas without advantages fall sharply.
Another reason for the rise in housing prices is that the income of homebuyers is rising due to economic development. The economic downturn, the bad environment, the salary cuts of employers, and layoffs will make homebuyers further wait and see the market, the demand market will further shrink, and housing prices will continue to fall.

For ordinary people, they are closely concerned about the appreciation of existing wealth, future incremental wealth, children's education, pension, and medical care. The corresponding city's economic development potential, employer salary, education, pension, and medical system. Cities with more resource advantages are bound to be more attractive. But rational people will weigh the cost and benefits to make the most suitable choice for themselves, not the most correct choice.

For loans, many people are not aware of the risks involved. First of all, the transaction of the purchased goods has been completed on the day of purchase, the transaction price is determined, and subsequent price fluctuations do not affect the determined transaction price. For real estate, if it is not certain that its price will be stable or rise, then it has huge risks. The urbanization process is coming to an end, and the time when you can make money by buying a house without thinking is over. Secondly, the economic situation changes, the loan interest rate will fluctuate, and the economic development is slow, and the interest rate can only fall further. People who buy early at the same house price will pay a lot more interest. Secondly, after buying a house, the place of work or even the region is basically limited, and there are fewer opportunities for job hunting. The continuous repayment pressure faces a low risk of salary cuts, layoffs, and unemployment. It is easy to fail to pay back the mortgage and the bank repossesses the house (especially for buyers who have worked hard to buy a house).
Similar to mortgages, childbearing is also a high debt and is accompanied by risks. But what is more serious than mortgages is that you cannot choose to give up this debt because of your personal economic situation. Nowadays, young people do not get married because of high housing prices, and do not have children because of the high cost of raising and educating. The economic downturn, the existing and potential future salary cuts, and layoffs have aggravated this impact.

Why are state-owned enterprises, government agencies and other institutional employers stable? Because the salary of employees is not the employer's own profit and loss, but supported by local or national finances. As long as there is no problem with the financial system, the salary will be paid normally. The source of finance mainly depends on taxes and project investment profits (such as real estate land transfer, infrastructure construction, automobiles, military industry and other types of commodity exports, and various commodity import and export trade). In fact, it is the national finance that feeds people working in the system.
The relevant policies currently introduced, such as increasing pensions, benefit people working in the system and have nothing to do with those who are not in the system. In the future, the social problems caused by the aging population are actually the problems of medical care and food for people outside the system.